# CIS5192021Fall-Project
Forecasting Exchange Rate Between US Dollars to Chinese Yuan with Machine Learning

Introduction
In this paper, we plan to first compare several existing time-series supervised ML algorithms on their predictive performances over the most recent exchange rate data between US dollar (USD) and Chinese yuan (CNY). Based on the accuracy of the test data, we will then propose a novel model by using the Combining Classifier to improve the performance of existing models over the financial data. The resulting model is expected to demonstrate a better ability to predict the change in exchange rate between USD and CNY. 

The input data is a dataset from macrotrends which records the average exchange rate between USD and CNY between January, 1981 and October, 2021. Since we are doing a time series analysis, we split the whole datasets into three parts by date. The data from 1981-01-02 to 2020-08-01 is used for training, the data from 2020-08-02 to 2021-08-03 is used for testing, and the data from 2021-08-03 to 2021-10-01 is used for validation. We then employ Prophet, xgboost, ARIMA, and LSTM with RNN to test on their performances of forecasting the exchange rate. The output of the models will give the accuracy of each of the models on predicting the exchange rate. The difference between the predicted value and the actual value will be clearly demonstrated by 2D plots.

We will evaluate different ML models by comparing their accuracy scores. Meanwhile, we will also measure the running time of different models to estimate the efficiency. In order to further test the model’s performance, we plan to use different measurements like ME, RMSE, MAE, MPE, MAPE and Theil’s U. We would then compare and select the most optimal ones to use as a combining classifier in the new model. Every new model will be tested on the same set of test data so that we could determine whether there is any improvement in the model’s performance. And we can pick one of the models which has the best performance as the final choice. 

The results of our project are expected to shed light on the ever-changing financial market. If we could successfully forecast the exchange rate between US Dollars to Chinese Yuan using our model, students, parents and travelers from both countries would know when is the best time to exchange their currencies in order to save money. Investors could improve their timing of investing in foreign investments and earn higher returns. Also, both the American and Chinese governments, business institutions, etc could easily predict the changes in imported product price or whether there will be an inflation.
